simulated_world/README.md, before:

# Simulator data

## Description of the data
The data from the simulator provides for each shot of the world: 
- Original image
- Flooded image 
- Depth image
- Semantic segmentation image
- json file with camera parameters

### Depth images

The depth maps are provided as RGBA images. Depth is encoded in the the following way: 
 - The information from the simulator is (1 - LinearDepth (in [0,1])).   
 `far` corresponds to the furthest distance to the camera included in the depth map. 
        `LinearDepth * far` gives the real metric distance to the camera. 
-  depth is first divided in 31 slices encoded in R channel with values ranging from 0 to 247 
- each slice is divided again in 31 slices, whose value is encoded in G channel
- each of the G slices is divided into 256 slices, encoded in B channel
    In total, we have a discretization of depth into `N = 31*31*256 - 1` possible values, each value covering a range of 
    far/N meters.   
    Note that, what we encode here is  `1 - LinearDepth` so that the furthest point is [0,0,0] (that is sky) 
    and the closest point[255,255,255] 
    The metric distance associated to a pixel whose depth is (R,G,B) is : 
    d = (far/N) * [((247 - R)//8)*256*31 + ((247 - G)//8)*256 + (255 - B)]  
    This is the same as :
    d = far* ( 1 - ((R//8)*256*31 + (G//8)*256 + B)/N )
      

### Segmentation images 
Segmentation masks are provided for the flooded version of the images. 
The following table provides the correspondence between classes and colors: 

 
| Label | Description |  RGBA | Color |  
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | 
| Water|Water generated by the simulator    |[0, 0, 255, 255] |![#0000ff](https://placehold.it/15/0000ff/000000?text=+)
|Ground|Horizontal ground-level structures (road, roundabouts, parking)  |[55, 55, 55, 255] |![#373737](https://placehold.it/15/373737/000000?text=+)
| Building|Buildings, walls, fences| [255, 212, 0, 255]|![#ffd400](https://placehold.it/15/ffd400/000000?text=+)
|Traffic items| Poles, traffic signs, traffic lights | [0, 255, 255, 255]|![#00ffff](https://placehold.it/15/00ffff/000000?text=+)
|Vegetation| Tree, hedge, all kinds of vertical vegetation | [0, 255, 0, 255]|![#00ff00](https://placehold.it/15/00ff00/000000?text=+)
|Terrain| Grass, all kinds of vertical vegetation, soil, sand | [255, 97, 0, 255] | ![#ff6100](https://placehold.it/15/ff6100/000000?text=+)
|Sky| Open sky | [8, 19, 49, 255] | ![#081331](https://placehold.it/15/081331/000000?text=+)
|Car| This includes only cars | [255, 0, 0, 255] | ![#ff0000](https://placehold.it/15/ff0000/000000?text=+)
|Trees| Trees are seen as 2D in Unity and not segmented |  [0, 0, 0, 0]
|Truck| Vehicle with greater dimensions  than car (fixed threshold TBD)
|Person| Not in the dataset for now| 

### JSON files

The json files contain the following information:
- `CameraPosition`: camera *absolute* coordinates  in meters- the origin is not the ground but the origin of the simulated world
- `CameraRotation`: pitch (x) , yaw (y), roll (z) in degrees from 0 to 360 (for pitch the direction of the rotation is from down to up)
- `CameraFar`: how far do we compute the depth map until
- `CameraFOV`: vertical field of view in degrees
- `WaterLevel`: absolute level of water in meters

## Preprocessing and recovering 3D metric coordinates

The metric depth map is recovered from the depth images according to the process presented above in the data description.
The pinhole camera model is applied to recover the 3D metric coordinates. 
However because some points are very very far away from the camera we end up with heights that can seem outliers to the distribution. 
Our goal is to find a reference 0 level(ideally ground, where the camera sits) in order to compute height.
 However, because of the aforementioned issue, we can't just shift the min z value to 0. 
 In a first approach, what we will do is take the min value on the first 20 meters and consider that the 0 must be in these first 20 meters.

### Pinhole camera model
 We consider a pinhole camera model. 
The mapping from 3D to 2D coordinates described by a pinhole camera is a perspective projection followed by a 180° rotation in the image plane.
Let <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$K_c$"> the camera intrinsic matric.  
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$\mathbf{K_c}&space;=&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{rrr}f_x&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;c_x&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;f_y&space;&&space;c_y&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;1&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$">  

where:  

- <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%24%24"> , <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%24%24">  are the focal lengths along the <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$x$"> and <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$y$"> axis respectively (<img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$x$"> is width axis on 2D image, <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$y$"> is height axis on 2D image, <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$z$"> is the othogonal direction)
- <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20c_x%20%24%24"> , <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20c_y%20%24%24">  are the pixel coordinates of the principal point on the image plane (ie point aligned with the optical axis of the camera (in our case it is the middle of the image))  

<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%24%24"> and <img src = https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%24%24$> can be computed using the horizontal and vertical field of view:  

<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%3D%20%5Cdfrac%7Bc_x%7D%7B%5Ctan%20%28FOV_x%20/2%29%7D%24%24"> 
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%3D%20%5Cdfrac%7Bc_y%7D%7B%5Ctan%20%28FOV_y%20/2%29%7D%24%24">

Given a 2D point <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$P$"> with 2D pixel coordinates in the image <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$(u,v)$"> and depth in the camera coordinates <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$z$"> (it can be real depth in meters, and if it is we will recover the metric informaiton, otherwise, the re will be a scale factor), the 3D location of P in the camera coordinates is : 
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x\\&space;y&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;=&space;K_c^{-1}&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}uz\\&space;vz&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$"> 

the multiplication by z on pixel coordinates can be understood with homogeneous coordinates (explanation link : https://www.tomdalling.com/blog/modern-opengl/explaining-homogenous-coordinates-and-projective-geometry/)


If the pitch <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$\epsilon$">of the camera is <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$\neq$"> 0, we can then compute the coordinates in the "real world" coordinate system (not rotated). 
<img src ="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x'\\&space;y'&space;\\&space;z'&space;\end{array}\right]&space;=&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{rrr}1&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;0&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;cos(-\epsilon)&space;&&space;-sin(-\epsilon)&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;sin(-\epsilon)&space;&&space;cos(-\epsilon)&space;\end{array}\right]&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x\\&space;y&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$"> 

For more details on the pinhole camera model, you can refer to this lecture : http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs131_fall1516/lectures/lecture8_camera_models_cs131.pdf

Commit message:

update choice of zero reference

simulated_world/README.md, after:

# Simulator data

## Description of the data
The data from the simulator provides for each shot of the world: 
- Original image
- Flooded image 
- Depth image
- Semantic segmentation image
- json file with camera parameters

### Depth images

The depth maps are provided as RGBA images. Depth is encoded in the the following way: 
 - The information from the simulator is (1 - LinearDepth (in [0,1])).   
 `far` corresponds to the furthest distance to the camera included in the depth map. 
        `LinearDepth * far` gives the real metric distance to the camera. 
-  depth is first divided in 31 slices encoded in R channel with values ranging from 0 to 247 
- each slice is divided again in 31 slices, whose value is encoded in G channel
- each of the G slices is divided into 256 slices, encoded in B channel
    In total, we have a discretization of depth into `N = 31*31*256 - 1` possible values, each value covering a range of 
    far/N meters.   
    Note that, what we encode here is  `1 - LinearDepth` so that the furthest point is [0,0,0] (that is sky) 
    and the closest point[255,255,255] 
    The metric distance associated to a pixel whose depth is (R,G,B) is : 
    d = (far/N) * [((247 - R)//8)*256*31 + ((247 - G)//8)*256 + (255 - B)]  
    This is the same as :
    d = far* ( 1 - ((R//8)*256*31 + (G//8)*256 + B)/N )
      

### Segmentation images 
Segmentation masks are provided for the flooded version of the images. 
The following table provides the correspondence between classes and colors: 

 
| Label | Description |  RGBA | Color |  
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | 
| Water|Water generated by the simulator    |[0, 0, 255, 255] |![#0000ff](https://placehold.it/15/0000ff/000000?text=+)
|Ground|Horizontal ground-level structures (road, roundabouts, parking)  |[55, 55, 55, 255] |![#373737](https://placehold.it/15/373737/000000?text=+)
| Building|Buildings, walls, fences| [255, 212, 0, 255]|![#ffd400](https://placehold.it/15/ffd400/000000?text=+)
|Traffic items| Poles, traffic signs, traffic lights | [0, 255, 255, 255]|![#00ffff](https://placehold.it/15/00ffff/000000?text=+)
|Vegetation| Tree, hedge, all kinds of vertical vegetation | [0, 255, 0, 255]|![#00ff00](https://placehold.it/15/00ff00/000000?text=+)
|Terrain| Grass, all kinds of vertical vegetation, soil, sand | [255, 97, 0, 255] | ![#ff6100](https://placehold.it/15/ff6100/000000?text=+)
|Sky| Open sky | [8, 19, 49, 255] | ![#081331](https://placehold.it/15/081331/000000?text=+)
|Car| This includes only cars | [255, 0, 0, 255] | ![#ff0000](https://placehold.it/15/ff0000/000000?text=+)
|Trees| Trees are seen as 2D in Unity and not segmented |  [0, 0, 0, 0]
|Truck| Vehicle with greater dimensions  than car (fixed threshold TBD)
|Person| Not in the dataset for now| 

### JSON files

The json files contain the following information:
- `CameraPosition`: camera *absolute* coordinates  in meters- the origin is not the ground but the origin of the simulated world
- `CameraRotation`: pitch (x) , yaw (y), roll (z) in degrees from 0 to 360 (for pitch the direction of the rotation is from down to up)
- `CameraFar`: how far do we compute the depth map until
- `CameraFOV`: vertical field of view in degrees
- `WaterLevel`: absolute level of water in meters

## Preprocessing and recovering 3D metric coordinates

The metric depth map is recovered from the depth images according to the process presented above in the data description.
The pinhole camera model is applied to recover the 3D metric coordinates. 
However because some points are very very far away from the camera we end up with heights that can seem outliers to the distribution (this is likely  due to encoding errors) - e.g. a few pixels will have very negative heights.  
We plan on training a height estimator from image inputs, and need to find a reference 0 level(ideally that would be ground, where the camera sits) in order to compute height.
 However, we don't have access to the level of the ground at the camera location, and because of the aforementioned issue, we can't just shift the min z value to 0. 
 Nevertheless, we need to have a consistent way of picking the 0-level in order to have a relevant target in order to train a height estimation model. Encoding errors that have an incidence on height are unlikely to happen for close objects, so we took the center point in the first front row of pixels (the bottom of the image) as zero. 
 This is just one way of choosing the zero-reference, the only thing to keep in mind is that the choice of this reference should be consistent across images.
 


### Pinhole camera model
 We consider a pinhole camera model. 
The mapping from 3D to 2D coordinates described by a pinhole camera is a perspective projection followed by a 180° rotation in the image plane.
Let <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$K_c$"> the camera intrinsic matric.  
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$\mathbf{K_c}&space;=&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{rrr}f_x&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;c_x&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;f_y&space;&&space;c_y&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;1&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$">  

where:  

- <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%24%24"> , <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%24%24">  are the focal lengths along the <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$x$"> and <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$y$"> axis respectively (<img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$x$"> is width axis on 2D image, <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$y$"> is height axis on 2D image, <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$z$"> is the othogonal direction)
- <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20c_x%20%24%24"> , <img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20c_y%20%24%24">  are the pixel coordinates of the principal point on the image plane (ie point aligned with the optical axis of the camera (in our case it is the middle of the image))  

<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%24%24"> and <img src = https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%24%24$> can be computed using the horizontal and vertical field of view:  

<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_x%20%3D%20%5Cdfrac%7Bc_x%7D%7B%5Ctan%20%28FOV_x%20/2%29%7D%24%24"> 
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?%24%24%20f_y%20%3D%20%5Cdfrac%7Bc_y%7D%7B%5Ctan%20%28FOV_y%20/2%29%7D%24%24">

Given a 2D point <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$P$"> with 2D pixel coordinates in the image <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$(u,v)$"> and depth in the camera coordinates <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$z$"> (it can be real depth in meters, and if it is we will recover the metric informaiton, otherwise, the re will be a scale factor), the 3D location of P in the camera coordinates is : 
<img src = "https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x\\&space;y&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;=&space;K_c^{-1}&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}uz\\&space;vz&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$"> 

the multiplication by z on pixel coordinates can be understood with homogeneous coordinates (explanation link : https://www.tomdalling.com/blog/modern-opengl/explaining-homogenous-coordinates-and-projective-geometry/)


If the pitch <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$\epsilon$">of the camera is <img src = " https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$\neq$"> 0, we can then compute the coordinates in the "real world" coordinate system (not rotated). 
<img src ="https://latex.codecogs.com/gif.latex?$$\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x'\\&space;y'&space;\\&space;z'&space;\end{array}\right]&space;=&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{rrr}1&space;&&space;0&space;&&space;0&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;cos(-\epsilon)&space;&&space;-sin(-\epsilon)&space;\\&space;0&space;&&space;sin(-\epsilon)&space;&&space;cos(-\epsilon)&space;\end{array}\right]&space;\left[\begin{array}&space;{r}x\\&space;y&space;\\&space;z&space;\end{array}\right]&space;$$"> 

For more details on the pinhole camera model, you can refer to this lecture : http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs131_fall1516/lectures/lecture8_camera_models_cs131.pdf
